# System-Setup-for-Network-on-chip-Prototyping
A Network-on-Chip system consists of routers and processing elements (PEs) interconnected by communication links. The packets are generated and consumed by the PEs while the routers are responsible to route the packets from source PEs to destination PEs. We assume that a single PE is attached to every router so that addresses can be to the PEs based on the locations of their routers within the network. Usually, the network is organized into a 2-D mesh and we assume so for our projects. Therefore, both the location of a router and the address of the PE attached to it are represented by a pair of integers (x,y) denoting the two coordinates within the network. Moreover, the 2-D mesh structure requires each router to to have four pairs of input/output ports that connect to neighboring routers on the four sides. Adding the pair of input/output ports for the router to communicate with the attached PE, we illustrate the router with these ﬁve pairs of ports in Fig. 1, and name them as NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, WEST, PE. Note that every PE should also have a pair of input/output ports such that it can communicate with the router it attaches to
We assume all the routers and PEs are driven by a single global clock so they operate in a synchronous manner. For each clock cycle, we assume each communication link, either between two routers or between a router and the PE attached to it, will pass
at most one packet. We further assume that the routers will be able to read packets from all the ﬁve input ports and route them to the designated output ports, and that a PE may generate multiple packets per clock cycle. Such assumptions would require to attach each output port a queue to store the packets that should be sent but not sent yet. In practice, if a queue is full, the packet routed to the port have to be dropped. However, in our model, we assume that the queue would store any number of packets and our projects will determine those queue sizes to avoid dropping packets. 
